wisdom has built her house she has hewn
out her seven pillars she has
slaughtered her meat
she has mixed her wine she has also
furnished her table she has sent out her
maidens she cries out from the highest
places of the city whoever is simple let
him turn in here as for him who lacks
understanding she says to him come eat
of my bread and drink of the wine I have
mixed forsake foolishness and live and
go in the way of understanding he who
corrects a scoffer gets shamed for
himself and he who rebukes a wicked man
only harms himself do not correct a
scoffer blessed he hate you rebuke a
wise man and he will love you give
instruction to a wise man and he will be
still wiser teacher just man and he will
increase in learning the fear of the
Lord is the beginning of wisdom
and the knowledge of the Holy One is
understanding for by me your days will
be multiplied and years of life will be
added to you if you are wise you are
wise for yourself and if you scoff you
will bear it alone a foolish woman is
clamorous she is simple and knows
nothing for she sits at the door of her
house on a seat by the highest places of
the city to call to those who pass by
who go straight on their way whoever is
simple let him turn in here and as for
him who lacks understanding she says to
him stolen water is sweet and bread
eaten in secret is pleasant but he does
not know that the dead are there that
her guests are in the depths of hell